I want you all to think back to that magical time that was the summer of 2009. At that time, we had just gotten the iPhone OS 3 SDK.

  * At that time, apps looked like this and code looked like this.
  * At that time, the App Store was 1 year old and we were in the middle of the gold rush. Believe it or not, the guy who made this app made millions.

It seemed like everybody had the next great app idea. There was this feeling of excitement in the air that inspired many of us to become full-time iOS developers.

One the first books on iPhone development, “Beginning iPhone Development” by Dave Mark and Jeff LaMarche, summed up this feeling of excitement in the air really well in its preface. It said: “I haven’t been this excited about a programming platform since I first set eyes on the Mac. . .The world is just beginning to open up.”

Who here remembers that feeling when your first app was accepted into the App Store?

Wasn’t that an incredible feeling of accomplishment? It addicting, and we so we just kept making apps. Our community of iOS developers continued to grow, and many of us became full-time indies making a living doing this.

Fast-forward to February 2015. There aren’t many indies left anymore. We call it “The Indiepocalypse”, and there’s been a lot of discussion about it in the last few months.

It all started when Jared Sinclair, a well known indie, released the sales numbers for his most recent app, which were well below expectations. Soon others started chiming in with their sales numbers, which were equally disappointing, and you started hearing about all these developers who had been silently leaving the scene over the years to get “real jobs”. This sense of doom and gloom came over the community. We started thinking - “What happened - where’d all the indies go”?

What happened is as the App Store has matured over the years, developers started shifting from individuals to teams. And by nature, teams can accomplish a lot more than individuals - which makes it very hard for an individual to compete.

Logically, we know that in order to compete in this market, we’d be best served by making a team of our own. However emotionally, that’s easier said than done because we have these feelings and fears holding us back.

First, there’s feelings. As developers, many of us are introverts, and we like to work alone. We sometimes think - I can do it best. I want to do all the work so it’s right, I want things my way. I want all the credit, and I want all the rewards. Mine, mine, mine. Not very admirable, is it - but it’s true - we’ve all felt that way sometimes.

Second, there’s fears. As developers, we’re sometimes scared to be part of a team. We’re afraid our teammates won’t work as hard as us, or they’ll mess up the project. We’re afraid of being a cog in a large machine.

I think these feelings and fears are counterproductive. If we let this negative thinking paralyze us we can miss out on a great opportunity. To show you what I mean, let me tell you a story about an indie iOS developer who almost missed out on the greatest opportunity of his life.

In 2009 this developer decided to quit his job and become an indie iOS developer. He made his first app, fully expecting to be the next App Store millionaire.

Here's what the app looked like. I mean - do you see this app, what was this guy even thinking?! But it was fun, so he kept going, and after about a year, he was lucky enough to be be earning what he needed to pay the bills.

While he was doing this, he also started a blog to write about some of the things he was learning along the way. The blog started to be a lot of work, and he realized that he needed some help to take things to the next level. But he was one of those darned introverts, used to working on his own. He didn’t want to get any help. He kept making all these excuses like “Oh I should just do it myself so it’s done right”, or “Oh I’ll never be able to find anyone good”, “I can’t afford it” - you name it. Can you believe all this whining and crying?

Luckily this guy had a wife who was much smarter than him, who sat him down and said, “You need to either get some help, or shut down this blog.” So he found some teammates, and as he started working with them, the site grew, and he started thinking of himself no longer as an indie, but as a part of a great team.

As you might have guessed, this great team is the raywenderlich.com team, and this former indie iOS developer is me. Being part of this great team has changed my life in ways I never would have imagined, and given me huge benefits over what I could have ever gotten as an individual. Let me share with just three of the benefits you can get by being a part of a great team.

First, being on a great team gives us this amazing sense of camaraderie and fun. When we’re part of a great team, we get to hang out with our teammates, talk about geeky news, share things we’re working on Photoshop each other’s faces on pictures, and so on. It really makes us feel connected, appreciated, and part of a tight knit group. We feel like we’re working together, supporting each other, and that we have some true friends.

Second, just like you have your own personal reputation, teams have reputations too, and by being a part of a great team, you can benefit from that reputation. On a great team, you have a reputation for something, whether it’s making great apps, great open sources software, great tutorials, etc. We hold each other to these high quality standards by giving each other constructive feedback on our work. We recognize what we did right and what we can improve upon next time. This helps us become better developers, authors, and even speakers, and improve both our personal and our team reputations.

Third and most important to me is Teamwork lets you dream bigger. As individuals, we thought in terms of building apps. As teams, we think in therms of building businesses. As individuals, we thought in terms of running meetups. As a team, we think in terms of running conferences. By working as a team, we’ve expanded the scope of what’s possible. Teamwork lets you dream bigger.

What does this mean to you, right now?

I know a small number of you are currently independent developers or contractors. First of all, congrats on being able to pull this off on your own - as we’ve discussed today, it’s not easy, and not everyone can do it. But just because you can do it alone, doesn’t mean you should. I encourage you to consider teaming up with somebody else on a project who shares your same values - who knows what you’ll be able to do together - it might be beyond your wildest imagination.

I know most of you are already on a team. Well there’s two cases right - you’re either happy with your team, or you’re not. Let’s discuss both cases.

If you’re happy with your team, and you’re already enjoying these benefits - then I encourage you to appreciate what you have. I want us to not just put indies on a pedestal as something to admire and strive for, but also put being a part of a great team up there as well, because it’s equally as challenging and important, and you get just as many benefits, if not more. Take a moment and appreciate the great things you’re accomplishing as a team, and also think - how can you make things even better than what you have right now.

If you’re not so happy with your team, I encourage you to think “How can you help make your team into what it can be, and what it should be? How can you build that sense of belongingness? How can you improve your team’s reputation? How can you begin to dream bigger?” You can start small - it can be as simple as setting up a team chat room or code reviews, but it will make a big difference. You have the power to transform your team into something incredible - take advantage of it.

Aside from our day jobs, there’s one more team all of us are a part of: the iOS community. As iOS developers, we are incredibly lucky - because we have the best community of developers that has ever existed. We have a reputation for being open, inclusive, sharing of our hard-won knowledge, and incredibly supportive to each other.

Some of you contribute to open source projects, some of you join your local meetup groups, some answer questions on StackOverflow or forums, some of you run podcasts, and some of you write tutorials or articles on our site or others. Some of you are beginners and aren’t doing this yet, but don’t worry - you will. Right now focus on learning - you will naturally find yourself contributing back later as you expand your skills.

In fact, right now all of you are contributing by being part of this conference. We’ve literally designed this conference around having you be an integral part of it.

  * We don’t want to just spit out technical info to you - we want you to be part of the tutorials, do the demos and exercises with us, so you can really learn.
  * We want for us to all get to know each other at the social events we have planned, and to discuss some of the new ideas that will come out from the inspiration talks.
  * We want for us to try only to soak in as much we can in these next two days, but also share out as much as we can as well.

Back in 2009 when I was an indie iPhone developer, I never would have imagined that I’d be here with this amazing team of all you today, making this conference happen and if I had continued on the road I was walking alone, I would have missed it all.

Don’t fall into the trap I almost did, of being left alone with your feelings and fears. Instead, I encourage you to think: What are the teams you can build, or the teams you can join, what are the great things you can create, and how can you change your life and the lives of others.

When you start doing this and making your wildest dreams a reality, just like in the preface of this programming book, you’ll feel the world begin to open up.

It’s February 2015 and to me there’s still a feeling of excitement in the air, more  than ever, because with a spirit of friendship and cooperation, we can do anything.

Thank you.